# Introduction
This repository is a **PUBLIC** resource available to **ALL**, but directed toward those studying for the NCEES Electrical and Computer Engineering Fundamentals of Engineering examination. Contained within the [Topics](Topics/) directory are subdirectories organized by name consistent with the knowledge areas specific to the EE/CpE NCEES Exam specifications. Each subdirectory will have a **README** file with details on the various scripts, modules, and libraries developed for numerical analysis and visualization. Regardless of whether you are learning these topics for the first time, brushing up on knowledge gaps, or refining your comprehension level of a specific topic, this repository is intended to be useful to **ANYONE** working or simply interested in the Electrical and Computer Engineering profession.

# Contributors
Anyone interested in contributing to the development of this repository is welcome to [contact me](mailto:th1622ee@cognitivesymmetry.com) to be added as a collaborator. The scope of this projects extends far beyond just those studying for the FE exam. The overall intent is to create a much needed **FREE** resource built around the fundamental concepts specific to the Electrical and Computer Engineering profession available as a study reference for those learning new, refining existing, and/or as an aid to the professors teaching the **MANY** topics within the broad spectrum of subdisciplines encapsulated by the EE/CpE profession. The majority of the source code will be written in MATLAB, C++, and Python with accompanying HTML, Markdown, LaTeX, and UML to describe the behavior of the various scripts, modeules, and libraries as well as mathematical derivations of equations. The level of effort required to develop a project of this magnitude is **MASSIVE**! So I urge **ANYONE** interested in contributing, regardless of your skill level or availability, to [contact me](mailto:th1622ee@cognitivesymmetry.com) for further details. 

